'\"
'\" Copyright 1991-1998 by Bell Labs Innovations for Lucent Technologies.
'\"
'\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software and its
'\" documentation for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided
'\" that the above copyright notice appear in all copies and that both that the
'\" copyright notice and warranty disclaimer appear in supporting documentation,
'\" and that the names of Lucent Technologies any of their entities not be used
'\" in advertising or publicity pertaining to distribution of the software
'\" without specific, written prior permission.
'\"
'\" Lucent Technologies disclaims all warranties with regard to this software,
'\" including all implied warranties of merchantability and fitness.  In no event
'\" shall Lucent Technologies be liable for any special, indirect or
'\" consequential damages or any damages whatsoever resulting from loss of use,
'\" data or profits, whether in an action of contract, negligence or other
'\" tortuous action, arising out of or in connection with the use or performance
'\" of this software.  
'\"
'\"
'\" The definitions below are for supplemental macros used in Tcl/Tk
'\" manual entries.
'\"
'\" .AP type name in/out ?indent?
'\"	Start paragraph describing an argument to a library procedure.
'\"	type is type of argument (int, etc.), in/out is either "in", "out",
'\"	or "in/out" to describe whether procedure reads or modifies arg,
'\"	and indent is equivalent to second arg of .IP (shouldn't ever be
'\"	needed;  use .AS below instead)
'\"
'\" .AS ?type? ?name?
'\"	Give maximum sizes of arguments for setting tab stops.  Type and
'\"	name are examples of largest possible arguments that will be passed
'\"	to .AP later.  If args are omitted, default tab stops are used.
'\"
'\" .BS
'\"	Start box enclosure.  From here until next .BE, everything will be
'\"	enclosed in one large box.
'\"
'\" .BE
'\"	End of box enclosure.
'\"
'\" .CS
'\"	Begin code excerpt.
'\"
'\" .CE
'\"	End code excerpt.
'\"
'\" .VS ?version? ?br?
'\"	Begin vertical sidebar, for use in marking newly-changed parts
'\"	of man pages.  The first argument is ignored and used for recording
'\"	the version when the .VS was added, so that the sidebars can be
'\"	found and removed when they reach a certain age.  If another argument
'\"	is present, then a line break is forced before starting the sidebar.
'\"
'\" .VE
'\"	End of vertical sidebar.
'\"
'\" .DS
'\"	Begin an indented unfilled display.
'\"
'\" .DE
'\"	End of indented unfilled display.
'\"
'\" .SO
'\"	Start of list of standard options for a Tk widget.  The
'\"	options follow on successive lines, in four columns separated
'\"	by tabs.
'\"
'\" .SE
'\"	End of list of standard options for a Tk widget.
'\"
'\" .OP cmdName dbName dbClass
'\"	Start of description of a specific option.  cmdName gives the
'\"	option's name as specified in the class command, dbName gives
'\"	the option's name in the option database, and dbClass gives
'\"	the option's class in the option database.
'\"
'\" .UL arg1 arg2
'\"	Print arg1 underlined, then print arg2 normally.
'\"
'\" RCS: @(#) $Id: man.macros,v 1.1.1.1 2009/05/09 16:27:42 pcmacdon Exp $
'\"
'\"	# Set up traps and other miscellaneous stuff for Tcl/Tk man pages.
.if t .wh -1.3i ^B
.nr ^l \n(.l
.ad b
'\"	# Start an argument description
.de AP
.ie !"\\$4"" .TP \\$4
.el \{\
.   ie !"\\$2"" .TP \\n()Cu
.   el          .TP 15
.\}
.ta \\n()Au \\n()Bu
.ie !"\\$3"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP	(\\$3)
.\".b
.\}
.el \{\
.br
.ie !"\\$2"" \{\
\&\\$1	\\fI\\$2\\fP
.\}
.el \{\
\&\\fI\\$1\\fP
.\}
.\}
..
'\"	# define tabbing values for .AP
.de AS
.nr )A 10n
.if !"\\$1"" .nr )A \\w'\\$1'u+3n
.nr )B \\n()Au+15n
.\"
.if !"\\$2"" .nr )B \\w'\\$2'u+\\n()Au+3n
.nr )C \\n()Bu+\\w'(in/out)'u+2n
..
.AS Tcl_Interp Tcl_CreateInterp in/out
'\"	# BS - start boxed text
'\"	# ^y = starting y location
'\"	# ^b = 1
.de BS
.br
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 1u
.if n .nf
.if n .ti 0
.if n \l'\\n(.lu\(ul'
.if n .fi
..
'\"	# BE - end boxed text (draw box now)
.de BE
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
.ie n \l'\\n(^lu\(ul'
.el \{\
.\"	Draw four-sided box normally, but don't draw top of
.\"	box if the box started on an earlier page.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \{\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.el \}\
\h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\l'|0u-1.5n\(ul'
.\}
.\}
.fi
.br
.nr ^b 0
..
'\"	# VS - start vertical sidebar
'\"	# ^Y = starting y location
'\"	# ^v = 1 (for troff;  for nroff this doesn't matter)
.de VS
.if !"\\$2"" .br
.mk ^Y
.ie n 'mc \s12\(br\s0
.el .nr ^v 1u
..
'\"	# VE - end of vertical sidebar
.de VE
.ie n 'mc
.el \{\
.ev 2
.nf
.ti 0
.mk ^t
\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\L'|\\n(^Yu-1v\(bv'\v'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu'\h'-|\\n(^lu+3n'
.sp -1
.fi
.ev
.\}
.nr ^v 0
..
'\"	# Special macro to handle page bottom:  finish off current
'\"	# box/sidebar if in box/sidebar mode, then invoked standard
'\"	# page bottom macro.
.de ^B
.ev 2
'ti 0
'nf
.mk ^t
.if \\n(^b \{\
.\"	Draw three-sided box if this is the box's first page,
.\"	draw two sides but no top otherwise.
.ie !\\n(^b-1 \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\l'\\n(^lu+3n\(ul'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.el \h'-1.5n'\L'|\\n(^yu-1v'\h'\\n(^lu+3n'\L'\\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^yu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.nr ^x \\n(^tu+1v-\\n(^Yu
\kx\h'-\\nxu'\h'|\\n(^lu+3n'\ky\L'-\\n(^xu'\v'\\n(^xu'\h'|0u'\c
.\}
.bp
'fi
.ev
.if \\n(^b \{\
.mk ^y
.nr ^b 2
.\}
.if \\n(^v \{\
.mk ^Y
.\}
..
'\"	# DS - begin display
.de DS
.RS
.nf
.sp
..
'\"	# DE - end display
.de DE
.fi
.RE
.sp
..
'\"	# SO - start of list of standard options
.de SO
.SH "STANDARD OPTIONS"
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c 8c 12c
.ft B
..
'\"	# SE - end of list of standard options
.de SE
.fi
.ft R
.LP
See the \\fBoptions\\fR manual entry for details on the standard options.
..
'\"	# OP - start of full description for a single option
.de OP
.LP
.nf
.ta 4c
Command-Line Name:	\\fB\\$1\\fR
Database Name:	\\fB\\$2\\fR
Database Class:	\\fB\\$3\\fR
.fi
.IP
..
'\"	# CS - begin code excerpt
.de CS
.RS
.nf
.ta .25i .5i .75i 1i
.ft CW
.sp
..
'\"	# CE - end code excerpt
.de CE
.fi
.RE
.ft R
.sp
..
.de UL
\\$1\l'|0\(ul'\\$2
..
.TH Blt_TreeCreateNode 3 2.5 BLT "BLT Library Procedures"
.BS
.SH NAME
Blt_TreeCreateNode \- Creates a node in a tree data object.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <bltTree.h>
.sp
Blt_TreeNode
\fBBlt_TreeCreateNode\fR(\fItree\fR, \fIparent\fR, \fIname\fR, \fIposition\fR)
.fi
.SH ARGUMENTS
.AS Blt_TreeNode parent
.AP Blt_Tree tree in
Tree containing the parent node.
.AP Blt_TreeNode parent in
Node in which to insert the new child.
.AP "const char" *name  in
Node label.  If NULL, a label will automatically be generated.
.AP int position in
Position in the parent's list of children to insert the new node.
.BE
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
This procedure creates a new node is a tree data object.  The node
is initially empty, but data values can be added with
\fBBlt_TreeSetValue\fR.  Each node has a serial number that identifies it
within the tree.  No two nodes in the same tree will ever have the
same ID.  You can find a node's ID with \fBBlt_TreeNodeId\fR.
.PP
The arguments are as follows:
.TP 1i
\fItree\fR
The tree containing the parent node.
.TP 
\fIparent\fR
Node in which the new child will be inserted. 
.TP 
\fIname\fR
Label of the new node.  If \fIname\fR is NULL, a label in the
form "\fBnode0\fR", "\fBnode1\fR", etc. will automatically be
generated.  \fIName\fR can be any string.  Labels are non-unique.  A
parent can contain two nodes with the same label. Nodes can be
relabeled using \fBBlt_TreeRelabelNode\fR.
.TP 
\fIposition\fR
Position the parent's list of children to insert the new node.  For
example, if \fIposition\fR is 0, then the new node is prepended to the
beginning of the list.  If \fIposition\fR is -1, then the node is
appended onto the end of the parent's list.  
.PP
.SH RETURNS
The new node returned is of type \fBBlt_TreeNode\fR.  It's a token
that can be used with other routines to add/delete data values or
children nodes.
.SH EXAMPLE
The following example creates a new node from the root node.
.CS
Blt_Tree token;
Blt_TreeNode root, node;

if (Blt_TreeGetToken(interp, "myTree", &token) != TCL_OK) {
    return TCL_ERROR;
}
root = Blt_TreeRootNode(token);
node = Blt_TreeCreateNode(token, root, "myNode", -1);
.CE
.SH NOTIFICATIONS
\fBBlt_TreeCreateNode\fR can trigger tree notify events.
You can be notified whenever a node is created by using the 
\fBBlt_TreeCreateNotifyHandler\fR.  A callback routine is registered
that will be automatically invoked whenever a new node is added
via \fBBlt_TreeCreateNode\fR to the tree.
.SH KEYWORDS
tree, token
